## Internal Variables
* $BASH -- bin file path
* $BASHPID -- Process ID of current Bash
* BASH_VERSINFO[n] --  6-element array contain bash version info
  ```console
  for n in 0 1 2 3 4 5
  do
    echo "BASH_VERSINFO[$n] = ${BASH_VERSINFO[$n]}"
  done  

  # BASH_VERSINFO[0] = 3                      # Major version no.
  # BASH_VERSINFO[1] = 00                     # Minor version no.
  # BASH_VERSINFO[2] = 14                     # Patch level.
  # BASH_VERSINFO[3] = 1                      # Build version.
  # BASH_VERSINFO[4] = release                # Release status.
  # BASH_VERSINFO[5] = i386-redhat-linux-gnu  # Architecture
                                              # (same as $MACHTYPE).
  ```
* BASH_VERSION -- version of bash
* $CDPATH
  ```console
  bash$ cd bash-doc
  bash: cd: bash-doc: No such file or directory

  bash$ CDPATH=/usr/share/doc
  bash$ cd bash-doc
  /usr/share/doc/bash-doc

  bash$ echo $PWD
  /usr/share/doc/bash-doc
  ```
* $FUNCNAME -- Name of the current function
* $HOSTNAME
* $HOSTTYPE
* $IFS
  * This variable determines how Bash recognizes fields, or word boundaries, when it interprets character strings.
  * $IFS defaults to whitespace (space, tab, and newline), but may be changed, for example, to parse a comma-separated data file. Note that $* uses the first character held in $IFS.
* $OLDPWD -- previous directory you were in
* Append the PATH variables
  * `PATH=${PATH}:/opt/bin` appends the /opt/bin directory to the current path. 
* $PIPESTATUS
  * The members of the $PIPESTATUS array hold the exit status of each respective command executed in a pipe. $PIPESTATUS[0] holds the exit status of the first command in the pipe, $PIPESTATUS[1] the exit status of the second command, and so on.
* $PPID
  * The $PPID of a process is the process ID (pid) of its parent process.
* $SHELLOPTS -- The list of enabled shell options, a readonly variable.

## Typing variables: declare or typeset
* Declare options
  * **declare -r var1** -- read only variables
  * **declare -i integer** -- declare integer number
  * **declare -a array** -- declare an array
  * **declare -f function(s)** -- declare functions
  * **declare -x export** -- define a variable for exporting outside the environment
* The way to generate randowm numbers